README.md, before:

# Graduator

This repository documents the 2019 prototype and experiments for the gradual
program analysis project, which were split into three different repositories
(for the prototype, experiments, and results, respectively) corresponding to the
following three subsections in this README.

## [infer-gv-impl][]

This repository is an (initially private) fork of [facebook/infer][]. Everything
relating to the prototype is in the [gradual][] branch, which started from the
[v0.16.0][] tag of the original Infer repo. [Changes][infer changes] of note
include the following:

- [.travis.yml][] updated to clarify how to build Infer for purposes of using
  this prototype:

  - be sure to install [libmpfr-dev][]
  - just use `./build-infer.sh java` instead of the series of four `opam`
    commands in the original `install` section
  - to run the prototype-specific tests, just use the `./test` script

  For more information on how to install Infer (and thus, this prototype), refer
  to [INSTALL.md][], which is unchanged from the original v0.16.0 version.

- [Makefile][] edited to add the custom Java tests for this prototype.

- [infer/src/base/Config.ml][] edited to add command-line options for the three
  checkers this prototype adds to Infer:

  - `gradual`, which is the one used in the experiments
  - `gradual_dereferences`, which just lists all null-pointer dereferences
  - `gradual_annotated`, which acts like `gradual` but ignores
    programmer-provided annotations

- [infer/src/base/IssueType.ml][] edited to add four Infer issue types which are
  used by the above three checkers:

  - `gradual_check`, which indicates pointer dereference locations where the
    gradual program analysis framework would not actually emit a static warning,
    but would instead silently insert a runtime null check; the prototype gives
    these instead of actually editing the source program because Infer does not
    support editing the program being analyzed, and also because the prototype
    is only intended for use with Java programs, which are already null-safe
  - `gradual_boundary`, which similarly indicates locations where gradual
    program analysis would insert a runtime check, but are not actually
    dereferences; these are not automatically checked by the JVM, and would
    result in different runtime behavior if our prototype actually inserted
    checks
  - `gradual_static`, which indicates genuine gradual program analysis static
    warnings
  - `gradual_dereference`, which just indicates a dereference of a pointer; this
    issue type is only used by the `gradual_dereferences` checker, and not by
    the main prototype

- [infer/src/checkers/registerCheckers.ml][], edited to tell Infer where to find
  the implementation of the gradual checker prototype.

- [infer/src/nullsafe/Gradual.ml][] holding the primary source code for the
  prototype, added to the infer/src/nullsafe directory because this project
  began with an investigation of the implementation of Infer's `--nullsafe`
  checker.

- [infer/tests/codetoanalyze/java/gradual/Gradual.java][] holding several test
  cases which demonstrate output of the prototype when analyzing Java code.

- [infer/tests/codetoanalyze/java/gradual/Makefile][] allowing the
  aforementioned Java analysis tests to be run.

- [test][] runs the custom Java tests for this prototype.

After the prototype is built using `./build-infer.sh java`, it should appear as
an executable called "infer" in the root directory of the infer-gv-impl
repository.

## [NullSafetyJava][]

This repository is a modification of the evaluation source code from Uber's
[NullAway][] analysis tool. [Changes][nullsafetyjava changes] of note include
the following:

- [nullaway-eval/all.sh][] added as a convenient way to run the prototype on all
  of the repositories at once.

- [nullaway-eval/common.py][] edited to add Infer's existing `--nullsafe`
  checker, along with the three mentioned in the previous section about
  infer-gv-impl, to the list of checkers that can be used from the command line
  in these Python scripts.

- [nullaway-eval/config.ini][] edited to change the `infer` path to point to the
  built prototype in a locally-cloned copy of the infer-gv-impl repository.
  Unfortunately, this path was left hardcoded as
  `/home/sam/github/gradual-verification/infer-gv-impl/infer` and was never
  changed to be agnostic of the researcher's username; it must therefore be
  updated in order to run these experiments on a different machine.

- [nullaway-eval/download.py][] added as a convenient way to download all the
  repositories to be analyzed.

- [nullaway-eval/eval_repos.py][] edited to capture the output from each
  individual run of Infer on each repository after it is analyzed. As with the
  .ini file, this also unfortunately contains a hardcoded path to the file whose
  relative path from the root of the NullSafetyJava is
  NullAway/infer-out/bugs.txt, which would need to be changed from
  `/home/sam/github/gradual-verification/infer-gv-impl/infer` in order to re-run
  these experiments.

- [nullaway-eval/javac_args.py][] edited to allow for multiple different Infer
  checkers, rather than just Eradicate.

- [nullaway-eval/run.sh][] added to use the prototype to analyze a particular
  repository as determined by a command-line argument. Note that, as written,
  this script only runs the `--gradual-unannotated` checker, which as noted
  above, is not the main prototype; to reproduce these experiments, one would
  need to replace this script with an [earlier version][run.sh]. Also, this
  script assumes that there already exists a directory called
  `~/github/gradual-verification/infer-gv-data/$1` (where `$1` is the name of
  the repository being analyzed) in which to store the output of the analysis.

## [infer-gv-data][]

[.travis.yml]: https://github.com/gradual-verification/infer-gv-impl/blob/gradual/.travis.yml
[infer changes]: https://github.com/gradual-verification/infer-gv-impl/compare/v0.16.0...gradual
[infer/src/base/config.ml]: https://github.com/gradual-verification/infer-gv-impl/blob/gradual/infer/src/base/Config.ml
[infer/src/base/config.mli]: https://github.com/gradual-verification/infer-gv-impl/blob/gradual/infer/src/base/Config.mli
[infer/src/base/IssueType.ml]: https://github.com/gradual-verification/infer-gv-impl/blob/gradual/infer/src/base/IssueType.ml
[infer/src/base/IssueType.mli]: https://github.com/gradual-verification/infer-gv-impl/blob/gradual/infer/src/base/IssueType.mli
[infer/src/checkers/registerCheckers.ml]: https://github.com/gradual-verification/infer-gv-impl/blob/gradual/infer/src/checkers/registerCheckers.ml
[infer/src/nullsafe/Gradual.ml]: https://github.com/gradual-verification/infer-gv-impl/blob/gradual/infer/src/nullsafe/Gradual.ml
[infer/tests/codetoanalyze/java/gradual/Gradual.java]: https://github.com/gradual-verification/infer-gv-impl/blob/gradual/infer/tests/codetoanalyze/java/gradual/Gradual.java
[infer/tests/codetoanalyze/java/gradual/Makefile]: https://github.com/gradual-verification/infer-gv-impl/blob/gradual/infer/tests/codetoanalyze/java/gradual/Makefile
[gradual]: https://github.com/gradual-verification/infer-gv-impl/tree/gradual
[facebook/infer]: https://github.com/facebook/infer
[infer-gv-impl]: https://github.com/gradual-verification/infer-gv-impl
[infer-gv-data]: https://github.com/gradual-verification/infer-gv-data
[install.md]: https://github.com/gradual-verification/infer-gv-impl/blob/gradual/INSTALL.md
[libmpfr-dev]: https://github.com/gradual-verification/infer-gv-impl/blob/gradual/.travis.yml#L12
[makefile]: https://github.com/gradual-verification/infer-gv-impl/blob/gradual/Makefile
[nullaway]: https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3267949
[nullaway-eval/all.sh]: https://github.com/gradual-verification/NullSafetyJava/blob/master/nullaway-eval/all.sh
[nullaway-eval/common.py]: https://github.com/gradual-verification/NullSafetyJava/blob/master/nullaway-eval/common.py
[nullaway-eval/config.ini]: https://github.com/gradual-verification/NullSafetyJava/blob/master/nullaway-eval/config.ini
[nullaway-eval/download.py]: https://github.com/gradual-verification/NullSafetyJava/blob/master/nullaway-eval/download.py
[nullaway-eval/eval_repos.py]: https://github.com/gradual-verification/NullSafetyJava/blob/master/nullaway-eval/eval_repos.py
[nullaway-eval/javac_args.py]: https://github.com/gradual-verification/NullSafetyJava/blob/master/nullaway-eval/javac_args.py
[nullaway-eval/run.sh]: https://github.com/gradual-verification/NullSafetyJava/blob/master/nullaway-eval/run.sh
[nullsafetyjava]: https://github.com/gradual-verification/NullSafetyJava
[nullsafetyjava changes]: https://github.com/gradual-verification/NullSafetyJava/compare/ad061a9e8f25f0253e37a42be457b2fb4e24a01a...master
[run.sh]: https://github.com/gradual-verification/NullSafetyJava/blob/7156e1461a16dd0730b4f871056a331274909d8f/nullaway-eval/run.sh
[test]: https://github.com/gradual-verification/infer-gv-impl/blob/gradual/test
[v0.16.0]: https://github.com/facebook/infer/tree/v0.16.0

Commit message:

Clarify the current meaning of gradual_unannotated

README.md, after:

# Graduator

This repository documents the 2019 prototype and experiments for the gradual
program analysis project, which were split into three different repositories
(for the prototype, experiments, and results, respectively) corresponding to the
following three subsections in this README.

## [infer-gv-impl][]

This repository is an (initially private) fork of [facebook/infer][]. Everything
relating to the prototype is in the [gradual][] branch, which started from the
[v0.16.0][] tag of the original Infer repo. [Changes][infer changes] of note
include the following:

- [.travis.yml][] updated to clarify how to build Infer for purposes of using
  this prototype:

  - be sure to install [libmpfr-dev][]
  - just use `./build-infer.sh java` instead of the series of four `opam`
    commands in the original `install` section
  - to run the prototype-specific tests, just use the `./test` script

  For more information on how to install Infer (and thus, this prototype), refer
  to [INSTALL.md][], which is unchanged from the original v0.16.0 version.

- [Makefile][] edited to add the custom Java tests for this prototype.

- [infer/src/base/Config.ml][] edited to add command-line options for the three
  checkers this prototype adds to Infer:

  - `gradual`, which is the one used in the experiments
  - `gradual_dereferences`, which just lists all null-pointer dereferences
  - `gradual_unannotated`, which acts like `gradual` but ignores
    programmer-provided annotations, acting as if everything is annotated as
    `@NonNull` in order to give a bound on the number of null checks that could
    possibly be eliminated by adding more annotations

- [infer/src/base/IssueType.ml][] edited to add four Infer issue types which are
  used by the above three checkers:

  - `gradual_check`, which indicates pointer dereference locations where the
    gradual program analysis framework would not actually emit a static warning,
    but would instead silently insert a runtime null check; the prototype gives
    these instead of actually editing the source program because Infer does not
    support editing the program being analyzed, and also because the prototype
    is only intended for use with Java programs, which are already null-safe
  - `gradual_boundary`, which similarly indicates locations where gradual
    program analysis would insert a runtime check, but are not actually
    dereferences; these are not automatically checked by the JVM, and would
    result in different runtime behavior if our prototype actually inserted
    checks
  - `gradual_static`, which indicates genuine gradual program analysis static
    warnings
  - `gradual_dereference`, which just indicates a dereference of a pointer; this
    issue type is only used by the `gradual_dereferences` checker, and not by
    the main prototype

- [infer/src/checkers/registerCheckers.ml][], edited to tell Infer where to find
  the implementation of the gradual checker prototype.

- [infer/src/nullsafe/Gradual.ml][] holding the primary source code for the
  prototype, added to the infer/src/nullsafe directory because this project
  began with an investigation of the implementation of Infer's `--nullsafe`
  checker.

- [infer/tests/codetoanalyze/java/gradual/Gradual.java][] holding several test
  cases which demonstrate output of the prototype when analyzing Java code.

- [infer/tests/codetoanalyze/java/gradual/Makefile][] allowing the
  aforementioned Java analysis tests to be run.

- [test][] runs the custom Java tests for this prototype.

After the prototype is built using `./build-infer.sh java`, it should appear as
an executable called "infer" in the root directory of the infer-gv-impl
repository.

## [NullSafetyJava][]

This repository is a modification of the evaluation source code from Uber's
[NullAway][] analysis tool. [Changes][nullsafetyjava changes] of note include
the following:

- [nullaway-eval/all.sh][] added as a convenient way to run the prototype on all
  of the repositories at once.

- [nullaway-eval/common.py][] edited to add Infer's existing `--nullsafe`
  checker, along with the three mentioned in the previous section about
  infer-gv-impl, to the list of checkers that can be used from the command line
  in these Python scripts.

- [nullaway-eval/config.ini][] edited to change the `infer` path to point to the
  built prototype in a locally-cloned copy of the infer-gv-impl repository.
  Unfortunately, this path was left hardcoded as
  `/home/sam/github/gradual-verification/infer-gv-impl/infer` and was never
  changed to be agnostic of the researcher's username; it must therefore be
  updated in order to run these experiments on a different machine.

- [nullaway-eval/download.py][] added as a convenient way to download all the
  repositories to be analyzed.

- [nullaway-eval/eval_repos.py][] edited to capture the output from each
  individual run of Infer on each repository after it is analyzed. As with the
  .ini file, this also unfortunately contains a hardcoded path to the file whose
  relative path from the root of the NullSafetyJava is
  NullAway/infer-out/bugs.txt, which would need to be changed from
  `/home/sam/github/gradual-verification/infer-gv-impl/infer` in order to re-run
  these experiments.

- [nullaway-eval/javac_args.py][] edited to allow for multiple different Infer
  checkers, rather than just Eradicate.

- [nullaway-eval/run.sh][] added to use the prototype to analyze a particular
  repository as determined by a command-line argument. Note that, as written,
  this script only runs the `--gradual-unannotated` checker, which as noted
  above, is not the main prototype; to reproduce these experiments, one would
  need to replace this script with an [earlier version][run.sh]. Also, this
  script assumes that there already exists a directory called
  `~/github/gradual-verification/infer-gv-data/$1` (where `$1` is the name of
  the repository being analyzed) in which to store the output of the analysis.

## [infer-gv-data][]

[.travis.yml]: https://github.com/gradual-verification/infer-gv-impl/blob/gradual/.travis.yml
[infer changes]: https://github.com/gradual-verification/infer-gv-impl/compare/v0.16.0...gradual
[infer/src/base/config.ml]: https://github.com/gradual-verification/infer-gv-impl/blob/gradual/infer/src/base/Config.ml
[infer/src/base/config.mli]: https://github.com/gradual-verification/infer-gv-impl/blob/gradual/infer/src/base/Config.mli
[infer/src/base/IssueType.ml]: https://github.com/gradual-verification/infer-gv-impl/blob/gradual/infer/src/base/IssueType.ml
[infer/src/base/IssueType.mli]: https://github.com/gradual-verification/infer-gv-impl/blob/gradual/infer/src/base/IssueType.mli
[infer/src/checkers/registerCheckers.ml]: https://github.com/gradual-verification/infer-gv-impl/blob/gradual/infer/src/checkers/registerCheckers.ml
[infer/src/nullsafe/Gradual.ml]: https://github.com/gradual-verification/infer-gv-impl/blob/gradual/infer/src/nullsafe/Gradual.ml
[infer/tests/codetoanalyze/java/gradual/Gradual.java]: https://github.com/gradual-verification/infer-gv-impl/blob/gradual/infer/tests/codetoanalyze/java/gradual/Gradual.java
[infer/tests/codetoanalyze/java/gradual/Makefile]: https://github.com/gradual-verification/infer-gv-impl/blob/gradual/infer/tests/codetoanalyze/java/gradual/Makefile
[gradual]: https://github.com/gradual-verification/infer-gv-impl/tree/gradual
[facebook/infer]: https://github.com/facebook/infer
[infer-gv-impl]: https://github.com/gradual-verification/infer-gv-impl
[infer-gv-data]: https://github.com/gradual-verification/infer-gv-data
[install.md]: https://github.com/gradual-verification/infer-gv-impl/blob/gradual/INSTALL.md
[libmpfr-dev]: https://github.com/gradual-verification/infer-gv-impl/blob/gradual/.travis.yml#L12
[makefile]: https://github.com/gradual-verification/infer-gv-impl/blob/gradual/Makefile
[nullaway]: https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3267949
[nullaway-eval/all.sh]: https://github.com/gradual-verification/NullSafetyJava/blob/master/nullaway-eval/all.sh
[nullaway-eval/common.py]: https://github.com/gradual-verification/NullSafetyJava/blob/master/nullaway-eval/common.py
[nullaway-eval/config.ini]: https://github.com/gradual-verification/NullSafetyJava/blob/master/nullaway-eval/config.ini
[nullaway-eval/download.py]: https://github.com/gradual-verification/NullSafetyJava/blob/master/nullaway-eval/download.py
[nullaway-eval/eval_repos.py]: https://github.com/gradual-verification/NullSafetyJava/blob/master/nullaway-eval/eval_repos.py
[nullaway-eval/javac_args.py]: https://github.com/gradual-verification/NullSafetyJava/blob/master/nullaway-eval/javac_args.py
[nullaway-eval/run.sh]: https://github.com/gradual-verification/NullSafetyJava/blob/master/nullaway-eval/run.sh
[nullsafetyjava]: https://github.com/gradual-verification/NullSafetyJava
[nullsafetyjava changes]: https://github.com/gradual-verification/NullSafetyJava/compare/ad061a9e8f25f0253e37a42be457b2fb4e24a01a...master
[run.sh]: https://github.com/gradual-verification/NullSafetyJava/blob/7156e1461a16dd0730b4f871056a331274909d8f/nullaway-eval/run.sh
[test]: https://github.com/gradual-verification/infer-gv-impl/blob/gradual/test
[v0.16.0]: https://github.com/facebook/infer/tree/v0.16.0
